League of Legends (LoL), commonly referred to as League, is a multiplayer online battle arena video game developed and published by Riot Games. 
Since its release in October 2009, League has been free-to-play and is monetized through purchasable character customization.
The game is available for Windows and macOS.
In the game's main mode, Summoner's Rift, two teams of five players battle in player-versus-player combat.
Each player controls a character, known as a "champion", with unique abilities and styles of play.
During a match, champions become more powerful by collecting experience points, earning gold, and purchasing items to defeat the opposing team.
Teams defend their base and win by pushing toward the enemy base and destroying a large structure within it, the "Nexus".
It is widely considered one of the greatest video games ever made.
League of Legends is the world's largest esport, with an international competitive scene consisting of multiple regional leagues which culminates in an annual League of Legends World Championship.
Summoner's Rift is the flagship game mode of League of Legends and the most prominent in professional-level play.
The mode has a ranked competitive ladder; a matchmaking system determines a player's skill level and generates a starting rank from which they can climb.
There are ten tiers; the least skilled are Iron, Bronze, and Silver, and the highest are Master, Grandmaster, and Challenger.
Two teams of five players compete to destroy the opposing team's "Nexus", which is guarded by the enemy champions and defensive structures known as "turrets".
Each team's Nexus is in its base, where players start the game and reappear after death.
Destroying an enemy team's inhibitor causes stronger allied minions to spawn in that lane and allows the attacking team to damage the enemy Nexus and the two turrets guarding it.
The regions in between the lanes are known as the "jungle", which is inhabited by "monsters" that, like minions, respawn at regular intervals.
Summoner's Rift matches can last from 15 minutes to over an hour.
League of Legends uses a free-to-play business model.
Revenue is generated by selling cosmetic goods with no impact to gameplay.
Several of these cosmetics—for example, "skins" that change the appearance of champions—can be redeemed after purchasing an in-game currency called Riot Points (RP).
League of Legends's player base has a longstanding reputation for "toxicity"—rude and abusive in-game behavior.
Online viewership and in-person attendance for the game's esports events outperformed those of the National Basketball Association, the World Series, and the Stanley Cup in 2016.
The game's highest-paid professional players have commanded salaries of above $1 million—over three times the highest-paid players of Overwatch.
AoE means Area of Effect (A spell which deals damage over an area)
Carry is a champion who even though doesn’t have a strong early game, should be able to lead the team to victory. 
An AD carry usually focus on a strong auto attack, while an AP one focus on ability damage.
AD is Attack Damage (Physical damage)
AP is Ability Power (Magic damage)
A ward is an item you buy at the shop, on the Consumables section.
There are two kinds of wards: the green and the pink ones.
Pink wards will reveal stealth units.
Wards are extremely important and can even decide the outcome of a game.
What makes them so important is the fact that they show you an area of the map, preventing ganks and controlling certain areas of the map, like the dragon, baron and some other jungle paths.
Wards also work as a friendly unit, meaning you can also teleport to it.
Some champions have skills which allows them to take advantage of a well placed ward and move on to them, like when you need to juke.
Over extending is to push a lane too much when there is at least an enemy champion missing.
Baiting is to act as a fishing bait.
A bait is usually done to attract an enemy champion or champions and try to make them over extend, creating a gank situation on them.
Farming gives you gold, and with gold you buy items.
Sometimes it’s better to just focus on farming than trying to gank another champion. 
Somewhere around killing 20 creeps will give you the same gold as ganking another champion
Farming not only gives you gold from creeps but also from destroying towers, inhibitors and the jungle monsters.
Tank champions have the duty of absorbing the most damage he can and protect his team-mates.
Tanks should always be in front when on a team-fight. 
Tanks usually the one initiating a fight, even though there are some exceptions.
An assassin usually doesn’t have much HP, however he should have a big burst and an escape ability. 
As an assassin you should always focus on killing their carry.
HP refers to health points, how much health a champion has.
As an AD, you should focus on getting a strong attack damage and speed, so you can down towers/inhibitors really fast since your auto-attack will be just crazy.
Contrary to ADs, an AP will focus on ability power to burst down other champions. 
Some items, like thornmail, which will damage an enemy champion who applies physical damage (auto-attacks only) on to you, dealing 30% of the damage he dealt to you as magic damage.
Poking is mainly done by ranged champions.
Poking consists in dealing damage to the enemy champions once in a while, from a safe distance.
Poking is something you should do passively and not actively.
Jungling requires specific champions, since not all champions are capable of playing this role.
A jungler will always bring smite.
The advantage of jungling is to have only one champion on top, leveling faster and farming more efficiently while the jungler also does so inside the jungle, killing the neutral monsters.
Split pushing is dividing the team in two (or more) groups and try to push on more than one lane.
This tactic works best with wards placed so you won’t get caught by the entire enemy team while you have fewer champions with you.
ADC is an abbreviation for attack damage carry.
In recent times, has also been called “Bot carry” due to non-ADC champions such as mages and melee champions being used in the role.











